"Expert advice and money. I wish I knew how to graft queen - was just building up resources and equipment to get there and … WHAM … back to square one. The only saving grace is the 4 remaining colonies are the best of the 4 strains of genetics I spent all that itme and money on for all these years. Unfortunately, now I have all the equipment and drawn comb for my 2nd Apiary/Nuc Yard plan and not enough Bees and queen. I also have honey customers this year and hope to find a balance somehow. The only mentors (if you can find one) are hobbyists and I'm past that on my own. #1 is varroa mite control which reflects the health of the colonies. #2 is bear damage. I have electric fencing around all 3 beeyards, 2 with solar chargers and as long as the charge is 4,000 Volts or higher, the bears stay away. #1 is varroa mite,
#2 neighboring beekeepers not being responsible with care and treatment (especially new beekeepers who have no ""advance education),
#3 pesticide use in area #1 Mites
#2 making the bees needs, the weather, and my available time off work all to work together 1. Bear, 2. Queen Loss 1. Farm chemicals
2. Lawn chemicals 1. Learning how to keep them alive through winter. 2. Knowing when to ""re Queen"" 1. Mites
2. Winter losses 1. Varroa/Viruses. 2. Potential risk of AFB and the perennial varroa re-infestation pressure from in-expertly managed hobby colonies within 2 mile radius of my colonies. 1) Finding queen and knowing if queen is laying proper amount and pattern
2) Knowing if/when to re-queen
3) How often & when to check for brood laying and to add supers 1). Agricultural practices regarding pesticides and herbicides. 
2). I am a largely ""absentee beekeeper"" living in Vt. inly occasionally 3 hives lost & still had 42 lb. of honey - no mildew or reason except didn't eat the honey A lack of varroa resistant bees and beekeeping experience (I am a novice beekeeper). Absconding bees - late swarming Access to Northern stock of replacement queen/packages. Access to quality bee stock: mite resistant. All my colonies died and I am giving up for now. Facebook Beekeepers and Facebook Mentors As a landscaper I find having the time to check the hive. The girls were amazing last year and quite abundant. I had 3 big swarms and sadly the hive is empty.  I haven't really opened to see what happened. As a new beekeeper I am often faced with conflicting information between what I read and what is on-line and from locals As a new beekeeper, I find learning about all the layers to a hive the biggest problem and that there are too many differences of opinion in the  literature. As a novice, I don't know enough about what is critical vs. optional. As a very small backyard beekeeper:
Varroa mites
Overwintering with global weirding (weather changes) Aside from mites; pesticides AVAILABILITY OF RUSSIAN BEES IN THE STATE. PRESENCE OF ITALIAN BEES IF REQUEENING WITH BEES HERE. 
WINTER SURVIVAL.
VARROA MITES (VSH BEES DO BETTER) Avoiding winter fell of hives Bear Bear activity, lost hives over winter- unknown as to why (plenty of food) Bear problems and Varroa mites. Bear threat; unpredictable and irregular nectar flows due to climate change BEARS Bears Bears Bears Bears Bears Bears and finding VHS stock to become treatment free. Visual wrinkle wing with bees crawling around hives. Treated (MAQ's) and lost queen to it so colony collapsed before I caught it. Bears and disease. Bears and Mites bears and mites and temp fluctuations during the winter Bears and mites, are the issues that are challenging.  Paying the Bee Fee which is really just a tax that provides nothing for me! Bears are a real problem by us. Bears, Mild winters, inexperience/time Bears, mites, winter loss Bears, mites. bears, varroa Bears: this spring they destroyed my hives three times. Finally moved to another location on my property the other day
Mites is another problem I face. Bears! Bears! After losing two colonies to a bear early last season, I decided to stop keeping bees until either the bears move on or I can build a more secure enclosure for them, or both. I may try again in 2018 or 2019, but not this year. bee adaptation to environmental changes and stressors-including climate, neonicotinoids, etc. Bee Death Bees Dying out of the blue! BEES SURVIVING WINTER Being a new beekeeper. A lot to learn. Being a rookie and not knowing what to do at certain times Being new to this and not knowing what to do! Better treatment program for lower mite population. I've begun to treat twice a season. Chalkbrood, we live next to a swamp Climate change and introduction of new pests from migratory beekeepers - also systemic pesticides (nerve/breeding damage) and GMO pollen (dif. Molecular structure/shape) Cold weather and freeze/thaw cycles in winter Cold winters colonies not available for purchase Colony Collapse Colony loss Colony loss and disease management. Colony loss this past winter. Last winter went in with 7 came out with 7. This past winter went in with 9 came out with 0, have never lost more than 1 during winters in the past. Colony Loss, hence why I've stopped. Competition from honey bottlers selling honey produced out of state under a Vermont bottled label Confusing information about mite treatment Controlling mites in my apiary controlling swarming Corn is becoming major crop over clover crop in area. Crop farms scalping fields in area in matter of days. Cost: everything is expensive and it is hard to find local nucs/ packages so I constantly import from other areas. In my area all the old timers are gone and there are not as many keeping bees and fewer resources for education. dead bees, poor honey crops Dealing with varroa mites. Difficulty getting through winter DISEASE AND CHEMICALS Disease management of my hives. Also disease/pests introduced from neighboring colonies. disease/parasites Doing routine checks on the bees! We have a toddler and its hard to keep up with our bees.  We've been lucky to not lose them :) don't know Education Education- Need a mentor Education. We would welcome an inspection from the VT Agency of Agriculture, Food & Markets. Effective treatment of Varroa mites this year. Effects of pesticides and environmental threats. Roundup and/or roundup ready seed. Educating the public and farmers. Every hardware store that sells wasp, ant, spider pesticides Every year seems to bring another challenge.  Starvation, Mold, Wax Moth, Cold long winters.  Thought both my hives survived the winter but had no luck.  Even after re-queening last summer.  Taking some time off from beekeeping! Extreme cold weather in late winter. Filling out this census. Finding a mentor, finding someone to help inspect the hives Finding mentor Finding neonicotinoids plants, herbicides used by state, getting educated. Finding time for colony inspection. We operate dairy. And mites. Of course Finding time to manage hives finding well bred queen, mites Fluctuating weather getting bees through the winter Getting colonies to overwinter. getting consistent mentoring support. Getting hives through the winter. I lose all hives every winter. I don't know why? Getting hives through winter because of pests (mites mostly) and starvation Getting information on bee practices, and joining bee clubs in the area. Getting too old for the hard work
Bureaucracy Getting you guys to understand kirk Webster is the greatest resource Vermont has. We need VT raised bees. Just my opinion, of course. good forge and good weather Habitat loss. Had a bear problem but solved with fence, so far this year has been good hoping to do some splits and begin queen rearing Having 13 answers to each of the questions I have about beekeeping and never finding out what, if any, was the right one. Registering replacement colonies purchased in May. Having my hives survive over the winter Having our bees live through 6 months of winter and cold and darkness at 1800', Oh yes, mites are an issue also Having someone more knowledgable than I visit my hives to explain what is going on Having to pay 10.00 just to keep a swarm of bees in my backyard. It's hard enough to keep the bears out of them because of over population due to mismanagement by the Fish and Game Dept. Herbicides, pesticides, fungicides, GMO's, varroa management, untimely moving of forage, and all environmental poisons that bees come in contact with.  Climate change extremes in weather patterns. hive mortality Human error, weather, wasps I am a new beekeeper (this will be my 2nd season).  Based on last year, the drought diminished food sources which led to robbing- even experienced beekeepers had robbing activity/losses.  Based on what I'm hearing from others, MAQS was perhaps not as effective against mites as we expected, so that is a major problem. I am almost 76. I can no longer easily handle deep (or even medium) boxes full of bees and honey. Also, Vermont winters are just too long and cold. I am an all-natural beekeeper. Lately nearby beekeepers have purchased bees coming from out of state. I believe that they a) mated with my queen and weakened my VT stock and b) may have introduced tracheal mites to my colonies. I am concerned about the genetics of the drones that my queen breed with. People buy queen from Georgia or California, which are not adapted to Vermont. Imported packages of bees are bringing in disease. Hive beetles will soon be adapted to Vermont. I am guessing mites. I mainly use bees for pollination on my farm and I really don't pay much attention to them. My two hives died out early in the winter and I don't know why. I cannot expect what would happen next.  Unknown situations. I did not think I had to treat for mites in first year. Late to treat, followed by robbing during time of drought. I feel like there is little help for new beekeepers to learn how to keep bees.  One hive crashing from varroa will infect any hive within flying distance.  People continue to feed bears without regard to what they are teaching the bear. I have been a hobbyist beekeeper for many years.  I registered 2 hives with you formerly and paid the fees as requested.  Added 1 swarm after I paid fees last year.  All hives died this last winter.  Due to age and poor health I do not plan to continue.  I do not know for sure why the bees died.  If I choose to renew I will reapply and pay the proper fees. I have MS which makes it hard for me to work with my hives so they are neglected - my husband helps harvest the honey and I check the hives when I can. I have someone with a lot of experience helping with bees, but I still wonder about the best winter location. I have trouble over wintering. The queen seems weak. There is always copious nutrition left in the hive but no bees. I'm frustrated after seven years I'm taking a break. Thanks Dave! I purchased 2 nucs from Singing Cedars Apiary last spring. One tested positive for EFB. It died this Spring. I treated it with terramycin last fall! Removed old comb. Was weak all summer. I burned the equipment but kept the boxes and flamed them. The other hive from Singing Cedars is doing great. My biggest problem was that I purchased a diseased hive from Singing Cedars. Won't do that again. I suspect that our hives are weakened by the use of pesticides on corn in the fields adjacent to our farm. I worry about the impacts of the neonicotinoids -- they need to be studies as a potential serious contributor to declining bee populations. I'm a 2nd year keeper, so still learning. Started with 2 hives in May and lost one on 2.25.17 check and the 2nd hive on 4.9.17 check. Thought I'd do well w/50:50 survival. Each hive had dead clusters at top super but w/ 7 frame of honey. Oh well! Almost made it! Not sure what happened but starting again w/ 1 package. Hope for the best and will keep learning. I'm not always sure what I'm doing wrong till its to late :) but the VT Beekeeping community has been wonderful. I've only had 1 or 2 hives over winter during my time beekeeping in South VT. I also am on a tight budget and may have to sell out. Ignorance Ignorance increasing my knowledge about bee biology and behavior and integrating that with my hive management approach and skills in order to keep the colonies alive. Losing hives is the biggest problem but the causes are multifactorial inexperience Inexperience Inexperience inexperience, varroa mites Inexperience, we are hobbyists, don’t sell honey or bees, just for fun. The books on hand get us by, but we are woefully befuddled & bemused by our ""girls"" most of the time. We have learned to love bees! Inexperience! I am still learning everything Inexperienced at diagnosing brood conditions and pest management (organically) Information on diseases and proper maintenance Insecticide use
Liquid fertilizer use on lawns (with weed killers) insecticides - bears It is increasingly difficult for a casual beekeeper to address increasing challenges. It mostly depends on the year and weather. Swarm control is always an issue, and at this moment I have a very bad back problem- so lifting hives- is very difficult. I have 4 hives this year I caught a swarm and made a Nuc from a hive that still swarmed! its expensive! Hive loss from varroa. Just as a new bee keeper finding responsible mentors that wont misguide us. Just staying on top of my hives.  I am VERY new to this Keep them from swarming Keeping bees Alive Keeping bees alive keeping bees alive and healthy Keeping bees alive from mites Keeping bees alive over the winter. My 4 hives were healthy entering the winter. All 4 produced a good honey crop. All bees dead by Feb 1. Not starvation!! 60 lbs honey left in every hive! I saw no mites in these colonies last summer which is unusual. Keeping bees alive overwinter-understanding and treating for the late fall conditions/diseases that seem to be more prevalent now. Keeping bees alive through the winter; climate -> extreme temp changes during winter, drought keeping bees alive through winter Keeping bees alive through winter/replacing hives Keeping bees free of disease and/or mites Keeping bees going over winter months Keeping bees healthy. Keeping bees is challenging. There are too many ways for hive to fail. Keeping hive pest issues under control Keeping Hives alive through the winter Keeping hives alive. Robbing is a big problem. Keeping hives healthy by managing varroa and good nutrition.  In learning to monitor earlier and treat as need and earlier when needed Keeping my bees alive and healthy. Mites are a huge worry but it's difficult to keep it under control when I don't know if surrounding beekeepers are as concerned and/or aware of the severity of the problem. Keeping my bees alive throughout winter.  I live in Worcestor, VT - very cold and longer snow than much of VT Keeping my hives free of disease and pest. I am a new bee keeper and have been going to be meets so I will have enough information to keep my apiaries in good order. Keeping out bears Keeping the bees alive from year to year Keeping the bees alive over the winter. Trying a different location on the property this year. Keeping the bees alive year to year Keeping the bees healthy. Keeping the colonies alive during the winter Keeping the colonies/hive alive over the winter (one lasted to Nov -> skunked) (one lasted until Feb -> mice/weather/?) Keeping the colony alive during winter Keeping the damn things alive.  43 years since I bought my first bees.  I've quit for foreseeable future! Keeping the government happy with the required questionaries. Can we do this online? This ink and paper is a pain. KEEPING THEM ALIVE KEEPING THEM FROM SWARMING Keeping up with the management, knowing what to do and when. It became too much with costs, gear, woodenware, time commitment. Keeping up with Varroa Keeping varroa in check and dealing with moisture build up over the wonky winter and spring. Overall I believe other keepers are neglectful/inexperienced and bees that are traveling to and from Vermont are spreading disease and pests outside of my management control Knowing what to do Knowing what treatments to use on mites and how to do it properly (timing, temperature). Knowledge Knowledge experience & identifying problems.
Varroa mites might have been the reason I lost a colony over the winter. lack of a mentor Lack of education of general public, pesticide use, varroa. Lack of experience Lack of forage. Possible use of pesticides. Unseasonable weather. Lack of free education. Finding forage for bees"lack of knowledge Lack of knowledge about hive monitoring Lack of knowledge and practical experience as I've been asked to tend my employer's bees with little help or guidance. I'm learning quickly and a lot, tend VBA demos, but have a long way to go. Lack of knowledge, we are entering our second season and although we purchased books, attended workshops and continue to improve our knowledge we recognize we have a lot to learn. Lack of knowledge. Lack of knowledge. Lack of locations to put bees, bears Lack of and beekeepers group in my area Learning about bees and overwintering.  From beekeeping meetings, varroa mites seem to be important as well. Learning about the many various facts of beekeeping. Learning curve Learning curve - new beekeeper learning fast enough to prevent common issues Learning hive management. Learning the ropes and trying to make contact with Mike Palmer. Learning to check varroa mite count and having a treatment schedule. Learning to graft and to read the hives better Likely, Varroa. Secondly, experience as I am just a 2nd year Beekeeper.
P.S. So happy Deptartment of Ag performs this census, thank you! local beekeepers who bring southern package bees into proximity of our hives or mismanage their own apiary Local farmers using pesticides, mites Local training at hives for better visual of what to look for problems long winter Loss of bee forage due to changes in agriculture practices and development (houses) Loss of bees (colonies) over winter. Know how best to treat for mites. Loss of bees and unknown why. Loss of bees. loss of hives loss of nectar sources Low feed area maintaining colonies 7/year Maintaining health of hive due to combination of factors that include, but are not limited to, mites, pesticides, weak bee strains, adverse environmental factors Managing for mites and rapidly changing weather conditions (winter). Managing mite populations Mite control mite control Mite control Mite control Mite control and mitigating effect on colonies over wintering.  Also fall 2016 lack of nectar led to robbing which late feeding did not fix. Mite control. I suspect I was robbed so heavily because of mite levels so I'm going to lighten up my counting practice and treat with oxalic acid as needed. Mite control. Im new and don’t know the best treatment to prevent diseases. Mite control. Weather is a close second. Mite infestation mite issues Mite management Miters mites Mites Mites mites Mites MITES mites Mites mites Mites Mites Mites mites mites Mites Mites mites Mites Mites mites Mites mites Mites
Weather
Starvation Mites (and sometimes my own mistakes) Mites and bear. My bees do not have access to many pesticides mites and bears Mites and bears Mites and how to stop swarming Mites and moisture. Mites and pesticides. Mites and the weather Mites, and places to put hives Mites, bears, swarming mites, experience Mites, new beekeepers and unregistered hive Mites, nosema, and the easy, cheap, safe treatments of them! I think everything we put in the hives do more harm than good to the bees system. Mites, Overwintering Mites, pesticides, dramatic winter weather changes (mid winter warm ups): moisture. Mites, Pesticides, Trump Mites, proper time devoted to maintaining hives, knowledge which comes over time with trail and error. mites, queen mites, swarming mites, swarming Mites, too many bears, climate change. MITES, UNPREDICTABLE WEATHER PATTERNS Mites, winter losses mites/related diseases associated with mites Modern dairy farmers, Lake Morey Golf Course, Town of Fairlee putting chemicals in Lake. Almost impossible to keep bees alive in Connecticut River Valley. Money spent. my knowledge, pesticides My own knowledge need more knowledge Neighbor caring for lawns and gardens using neonicotinoids. Neonicotinoids and varroa Neonicotinoids. From neighbors Neonicotinoid No control over adjacent properties ( gardening and farming practices) 
Not having a full understanding of the varroa mite starting to understand more about the disease they leave behind.
Local clubs have been great No mentors! Having to learn everything on my own. A lot of people say they will mentor you but when the time comes no one steps up to help you! None!  Love my Bees!  All is Happy! Not enough evidence based studies on best practices. Not getting any help from other bee keepers. My eyes are bad so I couldn't see any mites. There should be a number of classes that future bee keepers should take. VT Bee, out of Williams town were no help at all! Someone from the state should inspect every location. Not having a mentor close to me Not knowing enough Not knowing enough about management Not sure. Not being able to keep bears away. If I do a split and need to move hive to new location without electric fence. Not understanding why bees do not thrive. I suppose that I do not control the Varroa mites well enough. I have had bees since 1953. Novice beekeeper, trying to learn. Nutrition, bee pasture is shrinking- too many corn fields.  Pollen isn't what it used to be.  Pesticides are everywhere and bees don't stay on the organic farm- they fly out an forage.  Even the wax we buy has pesticides.  This year, seems even the weather is against us- too cold and rainy- should change though Organic mite control. Other beekeepers not treating mite bombs in August when the hives start dying and bees start robbing. Our wintering. Any advice would be helpful. over regulation from state of Vermont Over winter loss has been very tough.  It may be too windy in my apiary. I will try some different techniques this year.
I worry about pesticides coming in, but seems hard to determine if that is an issue. Over wintering Over wintering Over wintering but this winter (April 1st) it was bears. Over-wintering over-wintering over-wintering Over-wintering and cold brood
Thank you for helping to keep bees in VT healthy, we know you are busy!! over-wintering mites Over-wintering.  I have not been able to get overwintered Vermont nucs, which I believe would be hardier. Kirk Webster could not supply this year, but will next season. This season I have enough colonies to pallet wrap them (if I make 1 split). Overwintering overwintering Overwintering Overwintering Overwintering Overwintering Overwintering Overwintering Overwintering Overwintering Overwintering - mites Overwintering - weather Overwintering and bears. Overwintering and mites overwintering bees Overwintering bees and determining if loss of colonies was contributed from starvation or nosema apis Overwintering failure despite good ventilation, lots of honey stores, mite management. overwintering hives Overwintering issues. We need more info on keeping them over winter. Overwintering, capturing swarms in order to expand apiary with True queen. Overwintering, neighbors not treating for mites, bears, lack of time, money, daylight hours, time and money Paying the state a registration fee every year for the right to raise honeybees on my own property Pest management pesticide use by neighbors Pesticide use by neighbors & farmers Pesticide use on neighbors lawns/gardens pesticides Pesticides Pesticides Pesticides Pesticides - in particular residual low levels combining with each other.
- Neonicotinoids
- Mites Pesticides and anthropomorphic climate destabilization are tied for most important. Then there is the problem that most bee killing causes are related and impact one-another. Managing the complex system of stresses on hives (nutrition, pests, disease, pesticides, genetics, etc…) and reducing the stress caused by thing I have control over enough so bees can deal with stress that I have little direct control over. Pesticides and education. I wish more people understood the important of bees. Pesticides and makings ure bees have safe forage. Also educating new beekeepers as it becomes trendy. Pesticides and varroa Pesticides and weather pesticides being used locally
-golf courses
-farmers crops Pesticides- neonicotinoids.
We saw no disease- no European Fowl brood nor American no Nosema. What we did see was that our queen stopped laying prematurely. Near us is a corn field. Normally they wouldn't visit it- however, with the drought and the corn sweating at night, the bees likely got water there. The corn field was closer than other water sources. Our bees would have been introduced to neonicotinoids there. 

For question 8, they checked that 9 colonies had been lost, probably to pesticides. They noted that ""queen stopped laying- plenty of stored honey almost no capped brood. No signs of disease"" Pesticides! It's outrageous they are not being banned altogether! Pesticides. It would be helpful if someone from the agency had checked my dead hives for me. poor nectar flows Preventing winter losses proper winterization Raising bees and maintaining hive health is a difficult proposition. Never sure why hives did well over the winter or why they did not. It is hard to point to specific interventions that work. Michael Palmer has a very low loss rate, why? He is doing something significantly better than most in Vermont and beyond Vermont borders. It would be helpful for beekeepers every where to study his practices, perhaps using a grant for funding a study. Reduction in forage due to DOT, residential development and change in ag practices, and having to deal with dumbass other beekeepers. 
Case also notes that colonies did not die in VT, however in North Carolina two colonies died from varroa mites, three from starvation, and four from queen failure. Resources for new beekeepers. VT Beekeeping supply is great but there isn't much in our area Shortage of mentors. so many questions, ever changing environment and circumstances, multiple answers for every question! Someone coming here to show me a couple times what I should do and how to do it. Im a visual learner. I have two AZ hives. Southern bee don't like Vermont winter. Starvation & bears Starvation; inconsistent fall and winter weather that may interrupt successful clustering and reclustering Staying ahead of mites and keeping ahead of their needs to prevent swarming. Still learning Still learning when and how often to treat for mites; finding equipment locally (oxalic acid treatment). Weather issues - insulate/ don’t insulate materials to use for insulation. supply of good local, northern bees and queen support, time Survival over winter. Survival, getting through the winter Surviving through the Vermont winter. Sustainable growth with two new hives without having to feed syrup. Sustainable, natural beekeeping practices Sustaining healthy hives over numerous years without overtly treating colonies. Swarm control and overwinter losses.  Last winter, both hives were gone.  I think they absconded, lost their queen or some other event.  I have had hives successfully overwinter ~4 times in 14 years/  The past year's losses did not starve, and don't seem to have frozen, there weren't many dead bees left and only about 1 handful left in a cluster. Swarming, storing unused frames/comb Swarming/bears - Have lost 2 of 4 hives to swarm and 2 additional hives to bears. Temperature and mites Temperature fluctuation in the winter months The constant need to manage hive health and apply control methods at correct intervals to achieve beneficial results. Getting tired of the battles. Not the rewarding hobby it once was. the extreme weather change occurring over winter The inability for Vermont beekeepers to make meaningful progress in bee breeding due to annual influx of out of state packages and nucs from the South. The number of southern packaged bees in Vermont's gene pool and the cost of equipment. The use of pesticides and herbicides in the environment. ""The weather the weather The weather, although pesticides may be a factor if my neighbors use them. There are no hives in the area so I forego treatment. Perhaps better venting might help, the dead bees looked wet in the cluster. There are so many different things now to effect them. I could not put my finger on just one. Modern Times is the problem- It can't be fixed There are so many threats, the list grows, and changes in climate make it difficult to know how to best protect them. Things are going pretty good. These are the only hives I lost overwinter. Lost 2 a couple years ago to a bear. I switched mite treatment from apigard last year to hopguard. Im switching back. I also have heard a lot of people complain about nukes from singing cedar in shoreham. I went with Better bee this year. This year has been terrible year. Lost them over winter. Bears, aggressive bees, and the swarming. So all of the above are the problems. Time Time Time
Why isn't this form on line!?
Why did I receive two copies? Time and knowledge to work with the bees. Time and lifting heavy boxes time management TIME MANAGEMENT, BALANCING WORK WITH THIS HOBBY time to check the hives time to work w/ bees, mites, Addison County-a lot of spraying on nearby fields.  Not sure what it is.  Big wheel rigs.  Not sure f this is an issue or not. Time! Last year I was so busy I neglected my hives, which caused several swarms. My colony mite counts have been low. Bear problems were my biggest problem last year, because my fencing wasn't keeping them out.  Last year also seemed to be a dry summer, so there wasn't much food for winter. Time! Last year I was so busy I neglected my hives, which caused several swarms. My colony mite counts have been low. Bear problems were my biggest problem last year, because my fencing wasn't keeping them out. Last year also seemed to be a dry summer, so there wasn't much food for winter. To keep up with the tender loving care. Make sure lots honey for winter and winter wind break 30 lb Black Paper. Too many people using pesticides and chemicals in gardens and flower gardens Too many swarms Treatment for Varroa. trying to get my bees through the winter Trying to keep bees alive due to mite issues. Trying to make sure I am doing ""right"" by the bees (and not get stung in the process). trying to stay ahead of the bees!!

Disease
not enough nectar Trying to survive the winter. Trying to understand what happened last fall. I completed 2 treatments with Apiguard. Had great, strong colonies with young queen. Three died and left near empty hives, very few dead bees, 3 more severely weakened that died in winter. Undecided cause of swarming I suspect the main cause of swarming is that there are too many microwaves clogging the airwaves causing disturbance and aggravating the bees therefore causing them to swarm. Understanding and dealing with the interactions between pesticides, varroa and viruses UNDERSTANDING THE RAPIDLY CHANGING SITUATION WITH PARASITES AND PATHOGENS THAT AFFECT MY BEES - THERE IS ALWAYS SOMETHING NEW NEW (NOSEMA, ETC) TO WORRY ABOUT + I DO NOT WANT TO USE DANGEROUS DRUGS OR CHEMICALS IN MY BEEYARD Unexplained winter losses. Practice the same methods (other years have been successful) and go into winter with strong hives but have issues not due to starvation in spring. No evident disease. Unpredictability of overwintering a hive when I keep only 1 to 2 hives to minimize impact of these non-native pollinators on the native insects I try to encourage with insectary and pollen/nectar rich plantings. I had nuc on order from Kirk Webster via a friend, then Kirk was unable to provide one. Luckily, I was able to still get one from Northwoods, but they arrived after most of my sweet cherry blooms were gone. Unpredictable winter weather pattern. V mites Variable climate in winter and throughout the season.
Sometimes mites. Varroa Varroa varroa Varroa Varroa Varroa and new uneducated beekeepers also put us all at risk Varroa and wax moth (destroyed a lot of drawn stored comb this year). varroa bites, gaining experience w/o harming the bees Varroa levels. Superficially observed Varroa management Varroa Mite Varroa mite and associated diseases varroa mite and pesticides Varroa mite loads Varroa mites Varroa mites Varroa mites Varroa Mites Varroa Mites Varroa mites Varroa Mites Varroa mites Varroa mites Varroa Mites Varroa mites Varroa mites varroa mites Varroa mites Varroa mites Varroa mites
Black bear Varroa mites -- pesticides Varroa mites + Swarm control Varroa Mites and EFB infections Varroa mites and long winters Varroa mites and loss of forage. Also notes ownership of 23 apiaries located permanently in Clinton county, New York. Varroa mites and Vermont weather. Varroa mites and Vermont winter weather. Varroa mites- deformed wing virus, other viruses Varroa mites- will have to start treating this year Varroa mites, already had to treat although got nuc only 3 weeks ago Varroa mites, freezing temperatures varroa mites, managing swarming Varroa mites. I am striveing to only purchase northern raised bee colony or packaged inbred queen. Ideally, I feel development of mite-resistant genetics is a better solution than reliance of mite treatments. Varroa, hack bee keepers not staying on top of their colonies Varroa, pesticides Varroa, weather. varroa.
 Feared single colony reported last year wouldn’t survive winter. Purchased a nuc, so in spring (may) 2 colonies. Original overwintered, swarmed (captured) early June, so now 3! Then late June another swarm captured, but this colony apparently lost queen, became drone layers, so back to one colony, where started. Vermont climate varroa Varroa mites Viruses- "Very" expensive hobby
Starting this year, I will be making own splits ad Nucs, also will start using some natural treatments VT not knowing federal regulations and paperwork to move bees. In the past I requested the state to give me all the paperwork and regulations to do this and I did a dry run to Florida and at the Florida border at the Agriculture Inspection site they said I did not have the proper paperwork required. Before going down I told the bee inspector (who got me the information & paperwork) that I was sure that VT wouldn't get it right and I was found to be right. We are new at this which is a huge challenge, however to date I would say weather. The late snow and early/often rain this spring have been difficult We have concerns about local farmers using pesticides or roundup in the fields near us. We keep one observation hive consisting of three frames. This presents unusual and fewer challenges. Disease has not been a problem. 
Case also notes under Q5 that monitoring the hives is not like keeping field hives, mites have never been a problem. Weather Weather and long winters Weather variations weather, mites, swarming, and the unknown Were at high elevation and have tough winters. Proper winter prep is our biggest challenge. Why the hives leave in the fall. Winter winter Winter Winter Winter Winter Winter winter Winter and bears Winter hive loss
Bear Attacks Winter is a challenge. Varroa is a challenge however with tolerant/resistant bees I am not loosing them in the way they used to die before. Winter kills in pass years Winter Loss
I split Georgian hive and requeened with a northern queen. That hive survived the winter. The original Georgian hive was dead by December. WINTER LOSS, EXPENSES ETC… WINTER LOSS. winter losses, probably mites Winter losses.  I have kept bees over 35 years.  The last 3 years have been terrible for winter losses.  I lost 11 of 12 hives over 3 years.  Prior 5 years had minimal losses, less than 10% weak winter clusters, bees dying off early. WINTER SURVIVAL winter survival Winter survival. Winter survival. I have lost hives 3 winters in a row. Winter weather fluctuations in temp and problems of loss from climate change. wintering Wintering over Wintering over, survival of bees
swarming
colony collapse disorder? Wintering preparation Winterizing the hives winterizing, I do everything I'm told: wrap hive, insulated cover, ect. But still seem to lose them in the January cold- taking a year off. Please keep me on your mailing list as I hope to start again in 2018 Worried about wintering bees successfully your new $27 late fee.”